Unit-1 Introduction:

-> An operating system is a program that manages the computer hardware. It also provides a basis for application programs and acts as an intermediary between the computer user and the computer hardware.

-> The operating system provides the means for proper use of these resources in the operation of the computer system. An operating system is similar to a government. Like a government, it performs no useful function by itself. It simply provides an environment within which other programs can do useful work.

-> Operating system is the one program running at all times on the computer—usually called the kernel. (Along with the kernel, there are two other types of programs: systems programs, which are associated with the operating system but are not part of the kernel, 
and application programs, which include all programs not associated with the operation of the system.)

Computer organization
Switch on computer -> initiate bootstrap program(stored in ROM or EEPROM) also called firmware -> It activates CPU registers to device controllers to memory contents and it should know where OS kernel is located. -> OS kernel is loaded into memory ->OS starts running

Handling interrupts
Generally, the table of pointers is stored in low memory (the first hundred or so locations).
These locations hold the addresses of the interrupt service routines for the various devices.
This array, or interrupt vector, of addresses is then indexed by a unique device number, given with the interrupt request, to provide the address of the interrupt service routine for the interrupting device. Operating systems as different as Windows and UNIX dispatch interrupts in this manner.

Main memory commonly is implemented in a semiconductor technology called dynamic random-access memory (DRAM).

A typical instruction–execution cycle, as executed on a system with a von Neumann architecture, first fetches an instruction from memory and stores that instruction in the instruction register. The instruction is then decoded and may cause operands to be fetched from memory and stored in some internal register. After the instruction on the operands has been executed, the result may be stored back in memory.

1. Main memory is usually too small to store all needed programs and data permanently.
2. Main memory is a volatile storage device that loses its contents when power is turned off or otherwise lost.

The most common secondary-storage device is a magnetic disk.

Expensive and access speed decreases ->
CPU registers -> Cache memory -> main memory-> Electronic disks -> magnetic disks -> optical disks-> magnetic tapes
